---
date: 2021-09-27
title: Recon
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Cyber Risk and Resilience](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

Agenda

- know Yourself
    - Recon
    - Gathering Intel
    - Social, OSINT, Other
- Know your enemy
    - Environments and Operations

## Recon

- Gather Intel
- OSINT
- Footprinting

Recon: Learning about the activities and resources of a group, or the conditions of an area.

### Class Exercise 1: Google Yourself

> Type your name in to google. What do you see?
>
> Part 2: Type your address in to google. Do you see a photo of your house?

### OSINT

Open-Source Intelligence - gathering information from public sources.

### On-Location Intel Gathering

- Physical Inspections
- Wireless Scanning
- Employee behavior
- Shared Spaces
- Dumpster Diving
- What equipment do they use?

### Other Intel Sources

- Human Intel - under an assumed identity, go talk to people
- Signal Intel - listening
- Image Intel - take photos. Satellites? Google Earth is OSINT/IMINT
- Social Media Intel - aggregated from posts

## Footprinting

- Write down everything you know about the target
- Check property records, library records, associated people
- Ask the neighbors
- Check IP Ranges
    - Scan them those IP addresses
- For businesses - What's the email format? How many addresses can you get?
- "Patterns of Life"

## Project

The project is released! Research a company that has had a breach. More details online.

Due in two weeks.

## What can we do?

- Guards, Gates, Guns
- Monitoring
- Fencing
- Redundancy
- "Alternatives"
- hardening
- Repetitive Testing
- layers of defense
- OPSEC through Policies and Procedures

# Psyops and Social Engineering

It's hard to detect, and very hard to defend against.

How to do it:

- Diffusion of Responsibility
    - Make them believe it's not solely their decision
    - "X said this was okay, can you Y"
- Chance for integration
    - Compliance leads to some benefit
- Build Trust
    - Identity - get the target to identify/relate with the engineer
- Imply a Moral Duty
- Create Guilt
- Ask for help
- Cooperation - the less conflict, the better

Pretexting - creating and using an identity that the target is more likely to trust.

Reverse social engineering - creating a position of authority / power / a service, such that the targets come to the engineer. Robbing a house, then showing up at the neighbors selling security systems.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Cyber Risk and Resilience](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
