---
date: 2021-09-13
title: Principles, Models, and more principles
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Cyber Risk and Resilience](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

## Review

"Left of boom" is everything before the incident. "Right of boom" is what happens afterwards.

- Identify
- Protect
- Detect
- **BOOM**
- Respond
- Recovery

Those are all (except for boom of course) *functions* of the NIST CSF.

We can use the CSF to create *profiles* for an organization - we measure the org against the CSF, to see where they fall.

The 7 step framework process:

- Prioritize and Scope
- orient
- Create a current profile
- risk assessment
- target profile
- determine, analyze, prioritize gaps
- implement action plan

It's like a plan-do-check-act process.

> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PDCA

## Principles

MITRE publishes "Cyber Resiliency DESIGN Principles", to help protect your "critical" assets.

- Strategic principles
    - Focus on critical assets
    - Support agility and architect for adaptability
        - Put related things close together, so things far away can change with less impact.
    - Reduce attack surfaces
    - Assume compromised resources
    - Expect adversaries to evolve
- Structural principles
    - Limit the need for trust
    - Control visibility and use
    - Contain and exclude behaviors
    - Layer and partition defenses
    - Plan and manage diversity
        - If it's all MS, one hack brings down many things
    - Maintain redundancy
        - Have a plan B
    - Make resources location-versatile
    - Leverage health and status data
    - Maintain situational awareness
    - Manage resources (risk-)adaptively
    - Maximize transience, minimize persistence
    - Determine ongoing trustworthiness
    - Change or disrupt the attack surface
    - Make unpredictability and deception user-transparent
- Key to Aligned Disciplines
    - Security
    - Resilience Engineering and Survivability
    - Evolvability
    - Unique to Consideration of Advanced Cyber Threats

8 principles of csec law:

- Conduct a risk assessment
- Implement an information Security Program
- Involve the board of Directors in cyber security management
- Designate an individual in charge of cyber security
- Maintain n incident response program
- Manage cyber security of third-party vendors
- Conduct routine security training
- Regularly Update the program

> The only verb used twice is "conduct" - I can tell this was written by a consultant.

Principles from the GCHQ:

- Start with a baseline
- All orgs face risk
- Understand what you care about and why
- Think about situations in which you could be compromised
- Accept some risk
- Balance cyber risks with other risk
- Learn from sec solutions used by other orgs
- Keep an eye out for csec myths
- Be aware of the strengths and weaknesses of risk management techniques

Even more principles:

- Comprehensiveness
    - know yourself! Where are you?
- Opportunity
- Rigor
- Minimzation
    - of attack surfaces
    - of complexity
- Compartmentation
    - Isolate elements
    - "A monolithic design must be edited as a whole, a module design can be fixed and tested at the point of failure"
- Fault Tolerance
    - What happens when "it" fails?
- Proportionality
    - I call this reasonableness - don't spend $100 to mitigate $5 of risk

*Even more principles:*

- There is no such thing as absolute security
- The CIA Triangle
    - Confidentiality
    - Integrity
    - Availability
- Defense in Depth
- When left on their own, people make the worst security decisions
- Computer security depends on functionality and assurance
    - It works
    - I *know* it works
- Security through obscurity is not the answer
- Security is Risk Management
- Three types of controls
    - Preventative
    - Detective
    - Responsive
- Complexity is the enemy of security
- FUD does not work when selling security
- PPT are *all* needed to secure a system
- The open disclosure of vulnerabilities is good for security

> What are stackpole's risk reduction methods?
>
> - Mitigate
> - Accept
> - Transfer
> - Avoid

## The Cyber Kill Chain (CKC)

- Recon
    - Gather intel
- Weaponize
    - Craft a way in - create a weaponized bundle
- Delivery
    - Get the bundle in!
    - Email Phishing, upload, who knows
- Exploit
    - Now that its in there, get it running
- Install
    - Keep it running?
- C2
    - Now we can move around, do things
- Actions on Objectives
    - Accomplish goals

> remind prof: "dave kennedy video"

The CKC is focused on malware, which is not the only vector anymore.

## Models

### The CIA Model

- Confidentiality
    - He who should not read, shall not read
- Integrity
    - He who should not write, shall not write
    - "Ensuring the accuracy and completeness of data over its entire lifecycle"
    - Data cannot be modified in an unauthorized or undetected manner
- Availability
    - He who may read or write, can do so at any time

Sometimes CIA is extended with NR - non-repudiation. Actors cannot deny actions that they have taken.

Other extensions include:

- Possession or control
    - You drop your credit card down the sewer drain. There has been no breach of confidentiality, but it's still a problem
- Authenticity
    - NR means you sent it, but how do I know I got the same thing you sent?
- Utility
    - ?

### Defense in Depth

A chain is as strong as its *weakest* link. Defense in depth is as strong as its *strongest* layer.

Layer your defenses, at each layer of structure. External network, internal network, hosts, applications, data - all of them.

### Classifications

Not all data is equal.

- Public, sensitive, private, confidential. White, green, amber, red.

### Access Control

- Identification
    - An assertion of what/who something is
    - "Hi, I'm Paul"
- Authentication
    - Are they actually Paul?
    - measure features of the one claiming an ID, and compare measurements against known measurements.
        - Something you know
        - Something you have
        - Something you are
        - Location?
- Authorization
    - Now that we have a verified identity, what permissions do they have?

## Homework

- Csec for executives, chapters 1 through 3
- cyber warfare, chapters 1 through 3
- csec program dev for business, chapters 1 through 3

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Cyber Risk and Resilience](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
