---
date: 2021-08-24
title: Day One
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

Who has a software engineering account? *Lots of hands*

There is a site, knockknock.se.rit.edu, where you can check your account status.

Where is the course info?

- MyCourses
- Course Website (https://se.rit.edu/~swen-261)
    - Make sure you select the correct section

## Grading

- exam 1 10%
- final 25%
- project 43%
- exercises 22%
- -2% per unexcused absence after the first

## Principles of Software Engineering

- Customer Focused
- Iterative Process
    - Increment frequently
    - Demo to the customer to get feedback
- Manage Risk
    - Involve the customer to validate requirements
- Empirical Process
    - Transparency
    - Feedback loop to alter the process

> Note: The Prof. will be the client

How do we practice these principles

- communicate
    - Get requirements and feedback
- plan
    - manage expectations
- model
    - aka design the system
- construct
    - yeah
- deploy
    - Put it in the real world
    - Watch it closely - if it starts to fall apart, step in

There are a lot of frameworks to guide this process. We'll be using "OpenUP".

- Inception
- Elaboration
- Construction
- Transition

> "You will use a Scrum process to define tactical activities" - prof.
>
> I cannot imagine a more pretentious sentence.

There is "something" due *before* next class. You can find it on the course website.

> Half of us do not have access to the course website.

> why on earth are the between-class exercises listed under the class they're due by, and not under the class they're assigned in?

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
