---
date: 2021-08-31
title: Effective Team Communications and *Domain Analysis*
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

## Administrative

Groups are assigned! That's cool.

## Effective Team Communications

Let's talk about *Key Stakeholders*:

> The non-key stakeholders get no attention :(

A stakeholder has some interest in the outcome of the project.

### What is a Standup?

It's a short dev team meeting. Each person should answer three questions:

- What did I do yesterday?
- What will I do today?
- Any blockers?

Things that can go wrong:

- A non-team-member is running the meeting
- The meeting runs too long
- People digress on technical issues
- People try to solve the blockers
- People try to debate alternative solutions

### Manager Expectations

Prof, aka the manager, wants to see some things:

- Accountability for each team member via:
    - Trello cards
    - Git commits
    - Slack activity

> Show off!

## DOMAIN ~~EXPANSION~~ ANALYSIS

The *Domain* is the context in which software operates. What problem are we working in?

> This could also be called "The Application Domain"

The *Domain Model* describes the world in which the system's users and experts exist. A Domain might have:

- Domain entities
- Domain Language
- Relationships between entities

A domain model establishes a common understanding of the problem. It uses vocabulary from the problem statement.

Look for the nouns - what do the experts call them? Then, take a gander at the relationships between these "things".

A domain model looks like an entity-relationship-diagram from database, but it's a little less formal. It could just be two boxes with an arrow and a label: "An address describes where a customer is".

## Sprint Zero

It is begun. Take a look at:

- The vision document

Do some things:

- Team icebreaker activity
- Create a team contract
- Create a team slack channel

Also on the list:

- Create a trello group
    - Invite prof
    - Import prof's pre-made cards
    - flesh 'em out

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
