---
date: 2021-10-21
title: Code Review
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{page.date}}: {{page.title}}

> The next two sessions are sprint demos
>
> Teams 1 through 4 will demo on Tuesday (5-8 need not attend)
>
> Teams 5 through 8 will demo on Thursday (1-4 need not attend)

Today will be a short lecture, followed by an activity.

Code review is a way of putting your code out there and explicitly requesting that others look at it.

Code review is a great way for newer team members to get feedback. For spikes, code review spreads the info throughout the team. There are a few types:

- Individual
    - 1-on-1 review
- Synchronous
    - Throw it up on a projector, everyone debates
- Async
    - Github comments style
    - I really like this method, since you can split into multiple conversations

Things to look for:

- Code practices
    - Communication
    - Defensive techniques
- Design practices
    - Adherence to tiers
    - Adherence to OO principles
- Testing practices
    - Are the tests comprehensive?
- Documentation
    - Are the docs up to date?

Pull request and Code review are now parts of the definition of done in trello.

Remember that code reviews are biased towards pointing out changes - it can be frustrating. It's important to remember that this is growth, and comments shouldn't be taken personally.

## Activity

Create a pull request, adding everyone on the team and the instructor as reviewers. There is a docx to fill out, available on the class website.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
