---
date: 2021-09-07
title: Software Architecture and Sprint Planning
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{page.date}}: {{page.title}}

## Architecture

These are the earliest and most fundamental decisions. Your architecture choices will have huge impacts.

Architecture is influenced by non-Functional Requirements (NFRs):

- Operational
    - Scalability
    - Availability
- Developmental
    - Testability
    - Portability
- Constraints
    - Pre-chosen components (someDB)
    - Some framework
    - Stakeholder really wants X

Architecture is guided by patterns, like:

- Failover / Load balancing
- Model View Controler
- Layers

> "No architecture is right or wrong, just more or less useful"

WebCheckers must be web based, using Spark and Freemaker.

Architecture is modeled using tiers.

- User interacts with UI
- UI interacts with APP
- APP interacts with DATA MODEL

> I personally would split that further, UI / Routes / Controllers / Services / Data

The model tier holds the business logic.

> That's just wrong. The data model should not have business logic. Maybe constraint checks at most.

The layers can be broken down:

- frameworks
    - like spark / freemarker
- Platform
    - like java
- OS/Hardware
    - like Windows / desktop

> For the quiz, you will need this word: "Elaboration"

# Sprint Planning

> "A sprint plan is a plan to build a small working increment of a product."

Typically 3 weeks long, a sprint is a commitment to the product owner.

The sprint planning meeting is what creates the sprint plan.

The product backlog holds a number of stories. Each has a level of effort, which the team decides on. During the plan meeting, stories are moved from the product backlog to the sprint backlog.

Effort is measured in points. If a team can do 25 points of work in a sprint, then we pull in stories until we have that many points assigned.

Stories could fit into the sprint point-wise, but might need to be left out based on dependencies or purposes. Best judgement applies.

How do you know when you're done with a story?

Establish criteria for "Definition of Done" - Acceptance Criteria.

- Define acceptance criteria
- Design solution
- Develop solution - "code complete"
- Test the feature manually

Other things we'll hit later:

- feature branches
- unit testing
- code coverage?
- Pull requests / code reviews?
- Demonstrations?

The many transitions and states:

- Product Backlog
    - Advance when acceptance criteria are defined, and makes sense in the sprint
- Sprint backlog
    - Advance when someone starts working on it
- In Development
    - Advance when dev is done
- Ready for Test
    - Advance when someone starts testing it
- In Test
    - Advance when testing is complete - passes acceptance criteria
- Done

The sprint board - trello - tells us the status of all work.

If you have too much going on, a dropped story *should* go back to the product backlog.

The number of points your team can do in a sprint is called the *velocity*.

Your velocity should be a rolling average of the *completed* points of the last three sprints.

Velocity is a *metric* - a measurement - you cannot declare a board to be some length, and you cannot declare the velocity of a team. Since velocity is a measurement of a single team on a single project, and point levels are estimated, velocities *cannot* be compared between teams.

Life impacts how much a team can actually handle. The rolling average will smooth over most things, but teams *can* manually scale down if needed.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
