---
date: 2021-10-19
title: Presentations and Sequence Diagrams
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{page.date}}: {{page.title}}

> Today: How to make a presentation
>
> Peer Reviews come out today, due at midnight!
>
> Sprint 2 should be well underway. Presentations will be done in-class.
> 4 groups on day 1, 4 groups on day 2.
> You don't have to come on a day if you're not presenting.

## Making a good presentation

You know more information than you have time to present - Prioritize!

Don't be bad. Be good, by:

- Using voice inflection
- Keeping it interesting
- Practice!

## Sequence Diagram

Objects go at the top, in a rectangle. The line coming down from them represents time.

A *Class* is typically prefixed by a colon.

To represent an Object that is an instance of a class, use `Object:Class`, read as "<Object> of [type] <Class>", ex apple of type fruit.

All the "characters" in the story go across the top. The lines coming down are called "lifelines".

Diagrams are read from top down, and typically start on the left side - therefore, the top left corner. From there, we follow the lifelines down and see all the interactions between the characters in order.

Creation looks like `<<create>>`, while a function call with an argument might look like `method1(object3)`.

Boxes can be super-imposed over a sequence diagram to indicate loops or other alternative conditions.

> All "alt" conditions should have the same *entry* and *exit* state. If a line is "on" going into an alt, it must be on coming out of it, and the same in all other alts of the same group.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
