---
date: 2021-09-30
title: Sprint Demos and Backlog Refinement
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{page.date}}: {{page.title}}

Next class, Tuesday October 5th, will be virtual. Sprint Demo videos are due, to be presented in that class.

## Sprint Demo / Review

- Review the stories completed in the sprint
- Give a live demo of those features in action

> Class shares some stories of "The Curse of the Live Demo".

Attempt to connect the completed stories by a theme if you can. If there's time, show off the acceptance criteria. Focus on business value and not technical details.

Long story short, have an agenda. Basic presentation skills apply.

## Backlog Refinement

Before a sprint can go into the *Sprint Backlog*, it must be refined and given an *Effort Estimate*.

> Don't forget about other refinement tasks we've already covered, like acceptance criteria / solution tasks!

A raw user story, "As an X, I want to Y, so that Z", doesn't tell us much from a development perspective. The end goal of refinement is a clear and common understanding of what needs to happen, and a rough estimate of effort required.

A review of acceptance criteria: "Given X when Y, then Z".

Once the acceptance criteria are defined, create a skeleton:

- Review / update the domain model
- Review / update state charts
- Prof changed slides too fast
- Solution tasks probably
- Are you modifying UI? Interactions between classes?

This should have gone at the beginning, but here's an overview:

```
Product ---> Backlog ---> Sprint ---> Sprint
Backlog      Refinement   Planning    Backlog
```

Refined stories from the product backlog can be analyzed in the sprint planning meeting. The sprint planning meeting is where effort estimation takes place.

### Planning Poker

A *Point* is an abstract "unit of effort". One point is relatively simple, like writing a function, or a handful of getters/setters.

Points follow the *Fibonacci Series*. I don't know why.

- 1
    - Something entirely straight-forwards
    - Send an email, update a config value
- 2
- 3
    - Pretty straight forwards. If a function needs some javadocs and a unit test, it might go here.
- 5
- 8
    - At this level, we're gonna write a function that
- 13

Add up the values for the solution tasks to get a total for the story.

The poker process:

- Product Owner reads a story
- Everyone picks a point value, reveals all at once
- If everyone agrees, you're done!
- Otherwise, have the highest and lowest voters explain their decision
- Discuss and try again

Sources of uncertainty:

- Product uncertainty
    - The acceptance criteria are too vague
- Technical uncertainty
    - identify the uncertainty in the solution tasks
    - Create a spike if needed

## Other Discussion

- The sprint 1 rubric is online! use it

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
