[up](./index.md)

# 2020-01-14 - First Day

- Instructor Intro
- why DR
- MyCourses tour
- Syllabus highlights

## Instructor Intro

Professor Stacy Watson, PhD

- PhD in Computing and Information Systems
- Industry
	- Vuln management
	- pentesting
	- GRC

## Why DR?

There are disasters:

- Natural disasters
- Human-created disasters
- Accidents and Equipment failures

To keep the business going, we're gonna have to be able to recover.

We need:

- Vital Ops
- Facilities
- Assets

We're gonna make a Business Continuity Plan over the course of the whole semester.

Instead of a final, there will be a Tabletop Exercise, where we use our BCPs to respond.

## MyCourses

Prof. uses MyCourses heavily.

Content has everything.

- tentative course schedule
- Syllabus

> I had too much coffee this morning.

Week 1 content starts with '1-'.

There is:

- Week 1 task list
- Class Activity
- Project Reflection

Class Activity and project reflection have start dates. CA starts and ends during the class time. Better not forget the laptop.

Things will open midnight Saturday, so we can see what we need to do by Tuesday.

Reading and Class Prep Assignment are going to be due on Tuesdays.

## Activity

- assemble groups of 3/4
- each person read and take notes on a portion of the syllabus

### Definitions

- CPA - Class Preparation Activity
- CA - Class Activity
- PR - Project Reflection

### Points

- There will be 14 CPAs. Each one can earn 2.2, 2, or 1.6 based on grade.
- There will be 14 CAs. Each one can earn 2.2, 2, or 1.6 points.
- There will be 14 PRs. Each one can earn 2.2, 2, or 1.6 points.

If you get an excused absence:

- You can get an alternate CA
- You'll need to catch up with your team for PRs.

There will be a single massive project, with 6 milestones.

Thing | Weight | Due week
---|---|---
BCP draft 1 | 10 | 8
BCP Draft1 Peer Feedback | 10 | 9
BCP Draft 2 | 10 | 12
BCP Draft2 Peer Feedback | 10 | 13
BCP Presentation | 20 | 14
Final DRP and TTX analysis | 40 | Finals week

We're gonna use peergrade.

### Grading Policies

- We can withdraw with a W according to RIT rules
- Incomplete grades will be tough to get
- Once a grade is posted, you get one week to dispute.

### Course Policies

Be timely and respectful.

No late work will be accepted.

Do things ahead of time if you can't be here.

Attendance is mandatory and affects your grade.

### Office Hours

GOL 2559

2PM Tuesdays and Thursdays

### Questions

- Can I post my own notes online?

> If you're reading this, the answer was yes

## Back to normal notes

> "Don't beg me for extra points at the end of the semester"

> "I am all about rewarding people who are consistent and work hard on everything"

### CPAs

Read things outside class, checked via CPAs, and then discuss in class.

Graded by CheckPlus/Check/CheckMinus

### CAs

Happen in-class, and apply what we're learning. This is what makes attendance mandatory.

Also graded by CheckPlus/Check/CheckMinus

### Group Project

- semester long
- BC plan presentations
- TTXs test it - replaces final
- Thursdays will typically be work times
- Project reflection will be due after every Thursday

### Peergrade

We're going to review other people's BCPs. Grade for this will be based on quality of feedback, and feedback from others.

### Teammates

We're going to grade our group members.

On Thursday we're going to make 'team contracts', so we know what's required.

PRs are graded on completion and honesty. Saying you didn't do well doesn't decrease grade.

### Week1 questionaire

> yep

## To Do

- Complete Week 1 tasklist by duedates
