---
date: 2021-03-23
title: "Probabilities, Confidence, and Causality"
mathjax: true
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

As long as you can do the homework, any regression software will work. Excel isn't as nice, but it works. Examples will be provided in Stata.

Assignment 3 is due tonight, Assignment 4 is released.

For March 25th, read "An Introduction to Regression Analysis"

For March 30th, read chapters 1, 2, and 4 from "The Signal and the Noise"

# The Three Card Monte Example

## Frequentist Approach

**Null Hypothesis**: *Everything is fine*. We will gather some evidence, and see if that evidence contradicts this point.

We expect a 66.7% chance of loosing any given game.

Given that we have lost n games in a row, what is the probability of this happening under the null hypothesis?

$$
P(n)=(\frac{2}{3})^n
$$

*The probability of n losses is equal to two-thirds to the n power*

$n$ | $P(n)$
---|---
1 | 0.6667
2 | 0.4444
3 | 0.2963
4 | 0.1975
5 | 0.1317
6 | 0.0878
7 | 0.0585
8 | 0.0390
9 | 0.0260
10 | 0.0173

After the 8th loss, we can be 95% confident that the game is rigged.

## Bayesian

Remember the magic incantation:

$$
P(A\|B)=\frac{P(B\|A)P(A)}{P(B)}
$$

Where $A = $ "The game is rigged", and $B =$ "I lost".

We enter the game with a 40% belief that the game is rigged.

$$
P(B) = 1*P(A_{n-1}) + (2/3)*(1-P(A_{n-1}))
$$

The probability that we loose, is the probability of loss if the game is rigged (1), plus the probability of loss if the game is fair (2/3). These are weighted by the probability of their respective outcomes.

Now, I can use a simple program to calculate these values after each loss:

```js
let prior = 0.4;
for(let n=1; n<10; n++){
    let p_b = prior + 2/3*(1-prior);
    let p_a = prior / p_b;
    console.log(`${n} | ${p_a.toFixed(3)} | ${p_b.toFixed(3)}`);
    prior = p_a;
}
```

Here's the output in table format:

$n$ | $P(A\|B)$ | $P(B)$
---|---|---
1 | 0.500 | 0.800
2 | 0.600 | 0.833
3 | 0.692 | 0.867
4 | 0.771 | 0.897
5 | 0.835 | 0.924
6 | 0.884 | 0.945
7 | 0.919 | 0.961
8 | 0.945 | 0.973
9 | 0.962 | 0.982

After the 9th loss, we have 96% confidence that the game is rigged.

# A relationship between A and B

Ice cream sales and *Murders* are positively correlated.

There are 4 explanations for this.

- A Causes B
    - Ice cream causes murder!
- B causes A
    - Murder causes Ice cream?
- C causes A and B
    - oooo where did C come from? That's pretty wild yo
    - People stay inside during the winter, and don't get murdered
    - It's cold in the winter, so people eat less ice cream
    - Hot Weather causes ice cream *and* murder
- A and B aren't related at all
    - The universe is playing jokes on you

# Regression

> "Fear always finds its victim" - Prof.

Regression describes the relationship between some variables in the presence of noise.

There are at least two variables, called the:

- Input and Output
- Stimulus and Response
- Predictor and Predicted
- Argument and Result

Long story short, one "causes" the other.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
