---
date: 2021-03-02
title: "Everyone is Overconfident, About Everything, All the Time"
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

## Administrative

- Assignment 2 is coming up - the 4th?
    - The rest of it got delayed, it might be delayed
- Assignment 3 is released
- There is a take home test coming up
    - 4 hour time limit
    - it should take 1 hour
    - it might take 2 hours

## Chapter 6 Discussion

Heuristics:

- availability: prob of occurrence of event
    - prob(running into a cop on the drive to work)
- representativeness

How to account for subjective probability?

Non-experts show overconfidence. Calibration attempts to account for this.

## Chapter 7 discussion

How to perform a probability assessment

- stanford assessment
- "epi" protocol?

How to get reliable, consistent, accurate data from experts?

The Delphi Method:

- ask everybody the question
- compile a report and send it to everybody
- Ask the question again, letting people change their answers.

Availability bias: we only really consider things that we know about.

Anchor and adjust bias: we know this number, and adjust to account for problems that we know about.

## PDFs and CDFs

> Am I gonna have to turn on mathjax lol

Probability Density function: What is the probability of X happening, given parameter Y? This is the classic bell curve.

Cumulative Density Function: The probability of X happening, given that parameter Y is at *or less than* some value. It's the integral of the PDF.

> This is going to take tikz in the pdfs. I barely know tikz.

# Expert Elicitation

*When google fails.*

- We have a question
- It's very hard to measure
- It's very hard to estimate

It's time to find an adult who knows what they're doing. Or lots of them. But we can't just ask them what they think:

- Bias!
    - The weatherman says it's going to snow *A LOT*.
    - (It turns out they get the percentages roughly right, but I'm still convinced they overestimate amounts.)
- The person we're asking might not be good at statistics
    - The 70th percentile of grilled-cheese doneness is sunflower golden.

## Estimation Exercise

> A series of questions with numerical answers. No looking things up. Provide your best guess and your 90% confidence interval.

- Example: How many ice cream shops are in the city of Rochester?
    - Probably 40?
    - Almost certainly between 5 and 300
- How long is the Erie canal, in miles?
    - Like, 100 miles?
    - Almost certainly between 5 and 200
    - Answer: 363 miles. (3 students got it)
- How long is the suez canal? (I've never heard of this canal)
    - Could be 40 miles
    - Probably between 2 and 100
    - Answer: 120 miles. (6 students got it)
- Area, in square miles, of the city of Rochester
    - I'm guessing a square, 10 miles to a side, so 100 sq miles
    - Probably more than 9sqm, less than 400
    - Answer: 37.1 (4 correct)
- Area, in square miles, of the city of Los Angeles?
    - A square, 50 miles to a side, 2500 sqm
    - More than 100, less than 10,000
    - Answer: 502 sq miles (5)
- What is the population of New York State?
    - 50 million
    - Between 10 mil and 200 mil
    - Answer: 19.5 million (2)
- What is the population of Australia?
    - 10 million
    - 1 mil to 80 mil
    - Answer: 25.3 mil (5)

Question | Correct Intervals | Percentage
---|---|---
1 | 3 | 30%
2 | 6 | 60%
3 | 4 | 40%
4 | 5 | 50%
5 | 2 | 20%
6 | 5 | 50%

If we were good at making confidence intervals, we should capture the correct value 90% of the time. But at best, we saw 60%. Our ranges were too small, we were too confident in our answers.

> I captured the right answer in 4 of 6 questions, or 66% of the time.

We were overconfident in the familiar questions, and *still* overconfident with unfamiliar questions.

### This is graphable

We say that infrequent things, never happen. And common things, always happen.

> "Everyone is overconfident; in Everything; All the time." - Prof.

Except weather forecasters, apparently. They predict things, with percentages, every day. And they get quick feedback.

Good job, weatherman.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
