
[Index](../../../index.md) > [Decision Analysis](./index.md) > 2021-02-02: Graphics and Estimation

# Graphics and Estimation

> In class, continuing the benefit-cost analysis of last class

The cost of a chevy volt and a similarly sized gas car are compared. Additionally, the fuel costs and the lifetimes of the cars are considered.

## Further notes on Benefit Cost Analysis

- Make sure the inputs are reasonable
- Make sure you're doing the math correctly

> "Forgetting variables, and adding things that should have been subtracted, are the most common mistakes" - Prof.

## Information Graphics

It's important to look at the data points that *don't* have problems, in addition to the ones that do.

When conveying data in graphical form, be efficient. Remove *non-data ink*.

A good information graphic draws you in, and entices you to make comparisons. A bad information graphic inspires dread of the effort of understanding upon first glance.

*Make figures simple and readable.*

- Avoid anything 3d
- Label axes with readable units
- Make labels work *for the reader*

Prof.'s advice for making better excel plots:

- Mess with the font sizes, scale, etc, as needed
- Consider labels for lines (no legend)
- Consider what the graph will look like in black/white

## Estimation

Say we need a number:

- Look it up in a data source
- Collect data w/ measurements
- Guess it ourselves
- Get experts to help us guess

Frequently, a decent guess is close enough.


## Coming Up Next

- Discussion of the readings
- Inflation

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Decision Analysis](./index.md) > 2021-02-02: Graphics and Estimation
