[up](./index.md)

# 2020-01-16 - Insert Title Here

Independent Study op available. Also hear about this in Audit. They're really trying to get this off the ground, and it seems kinda cool.

## Overview

- Disaster Recovery
	- Recovering from a significant disaster
	- Restore critical business processes
	- Do it fast, inside 30 days
- Business Continuity
	- Identifying and Mitigating critical machines that may fail
	- "Our big printer is our only one, we should have another."
	- Restore businesses back to pre-disaster state. Return to normal operations.
	- Takes a long time.

Q: Are we a whole company or a department?  
A: You will choose one of many technical departments

## Common Mistakes

- No BIA
- Too tech focused
- Doesn't involve the business
	- Similar to BIA
- Ops personnel responsible
	- Who is supposed to do things?
- Docs too complex
	- Needs to be clear and understood.
- No plans for maintenance
- No Training
- Template restrictions
- Not understanding needs
- Compliancy
	- Due diligence
	- "Never happen to me"
- Not getting started

## Basic concepts

- Readiness assessment
	- Is the company large enough to need this?
- flow
- identify critical paths
- unite tech w/ business
- minimize decision making
	- decisions made ahead of time
- training!
- Change Management
	- Changes to the document must alert stakeholders
	- "Businesses live and die by change management"
- Management commitment
	- Plan needs support and authority

Avoid single points of failure.

Read this: [Bus Factor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bus_factor)

- Assignments will set technical expectations
- Teams will set team expectations

## Team selection

- Business World
	- Teams selected by expertise and roles
	- Tasks generated by team
- In Class
	- Teams are assigned
	- Tasks are assigned weekly
	- Teams will work together every Thursday

## Class Activity: Team Contract

Number on nametag is Group

### Successful Teams

- All contribute
- Communicate directly
- Communicate outside class
- Explore topics on their own

### Talking to team about communication

- Read teamroles.pdf
- Each member make a list of their favorites

### Team Contract

- Expectations
	- Team Meetings
	- Class Attendance
- 5 to 7 ground rules
- Roles and Responsibilities
- Communication Plan
- Conflict Resolution
- Process for Making Revisions
- Signatures
