---
date: 2021-10-18
title: Management Concepts
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Cyber Risk and Resilience](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

> We missed the 4th because prof canceled
> We missed the 11th for RIT fall break

> Sprint 1 due next class  
> Sprint 2 has been released - due in two weeks
> There was no midterm

We are transitioning to "Phase 2" of the class - resilience and recovery.

We're going to talk about:

- Governance
- Change management
- personell management

## Governance

This is how the company operates. It's the guard rails, the strategies, the written and unwritten ways of doing things.

Risk management strategies fall in here.

Governance is the collective set of principles, while management is the implementation of these principles. Feedback from management is critical, because it refines the strategy and governance.

*Strategy* is there to implement Vision and Mission. While these may stay the same, the strategy to achieve them may change.

How do we evaluate strategies? Are they working? We gotta test them.

Building strategy:

- Where are we, what do we have to work with?
- Where do we want to go?
- How do we get there?

The three S's: Strategy Steering and Standards.

The four C's support the three S's:

- Competencies
- Conditions
- Conduct
- Capabilities

The organization's board determines the strategy and accepts the risk. The board ensures value creation and protects the business. Executives take the board strategy and implement it - *Operations*.

To know where we are, and if it's different from where we were, we need to take *measurements*.

> It's Metrics time!

Actually dumb acronym time:

- Key Goal Indicators
    - Goals are specific, measurable, and time-relevant
    - "Serve tacos within 30 seconds of ordering"
    - "Onboard one client per month"
- Critical Success Factors
    - Things that are... critical for... success?
- Key Performance Indicators
    - What are we measuring? To decide what percentage of the goal we're at?

SMART goals are:

- Specific
- Measurable
- Achievable
- Realistic
- Timely

CMMI - Capability maturity Model Integration. 5 levels:

1. Processes are ad-hoc
2. Processes are repeatable
3. Defined, documented, subject to review and improvement
4. Processes are managed via a variety of reliable metrics
5. Processes are optimized with a focus on continual improvement

IT and CSEC are parallel but different paths.

IT creates value. It enables, expedites, optimizes, faster, cheaper, easier.

CSEC protects value (risk management). It evaluates, double-checks, restricts, and monitors.

## Change Control

Things change all the time, we just need to plan for things. If we don't plan, we can react.

- Identify the motivation to change
- Develop a course of action, or many
- Select a course of action
- Get approval
- Implement the change
- Monitor and Evaluate

> "Sempre Gumby: Always Flexible" - Prof

## People

People are the greatest threat.

For optimal performance, you need the right people on the right tasks at the right time.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Cyber Risk and Resilience](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
