[up](./index.md)

# 2020-01-16

Practice Exercises will be on MyCourses - Use to Practice!

## Re-cap from last week

File processing systems pre-date the DB. There are some legacy systems that still exist. They are expensive and hard to maintain.

Databases are collections of related information.

## What can we store

- Numbers
- Text
- Date/time
- Graphics and images
- sound and video
- programs and objects

## Parts of the DB

- App metadata
	- Info about forms and apps
- Metadata
	- what's the structure of our db
- Index and Overhead
	- Indexing shenanigans
	- Indexing in DBs is dark magic, easily an entire course
- User data
	- The data you want

## Metadata

Tells you about the DB. Table of tables, info about relations and rules and constraints and all that stuff.

## DBMS components

- Design tools
	- Developers use design tools
	- Design tools use the engine to change the DB
- runtime
	- Applications use the runtime
	- The runtime uses the engine to query the DB
- dbms engine
	- Handles requests, changes the db

## DB as a Model

A database is a model of the reality of the subject matter expert / user.

## DB development life cycle

We'll cover these things in this class:

- Create an entity-relationship model
- Transpose data model into relations
- Normalize relations
- Create the DB Tables
- Define relationships between tables

> Prof. didn't say it but we're gonna query like crazy

## Creating Data models

"Identify the Universe of Discourse of the problem"

The UoD describes the subset of reality that we are interested in modeling.

- Entities - Things
- Attributes - Properties of the things
- Relationships (between the things)
- Business Rules about the things

As the UoD changes, we will have to modify the data model.

## Data Modeling

A method of communication between the DB expert and the client, such that each can understand what is being captured in the model.

ERP = Entity-relationship model

UML = Universal Modeling Language

## Levels of Abstraction

- High Level
	- Abstract representation
	- UML / ERP
- Representational Level
	- Movement between high and low levels
	- SQL
- Low Level
	- Physical, filesystem layouts, etc.
	- Bits on Chips

## Attributes

- Chen's Model
	- Oval, connected to entity class (rectangle) by line.
- Crow's Foot Model
	- Listed in box

Simple attributes are a single piece of data. Example, firstname.

Composite attributes are composed of other attributes. Fullname = firstname + lastname.

Composite Attributes are not listed in Crow's foot notation

Single valued attributes store one thing. Firstname.

Multi-value attributes: Skills: carpentry, plumbing, etc.

In Chen's notation, multi-value attributes are in a Double Oval.

Stored vs. Derived - is it in the db, or calculated when needed?

An identifier tells you something unique about that entity. For example, SSN, or a composite identifier of firstname+lastname.
