[up](./index.md)

# 2020-01-14 - Day One

> Anarchy tech utopia is a class? That sounds awesome

## Syllabus

> 26 pages long wtf

Prof: addics [at] rit.edu

Office: Wed + Thurs after class, 6:15 to 7:30

No Late Homework

You *can* use one of your 5 'late days' to submit a late assignment.

Late days going into the final are a bonus point on the written and practical final.

Possible to therefore have 10 bonus points come the final.

If you have no late days left, max grade for a homework is 50%.

Last class is the written final, final block is the practical final.

Lab PCs are deepfreezed, take things home.

9 homeworks, equally graded, 40% of final grade. Each exam is 15% of grade.

There is no extra credit.

## Evolution of DBs

- Flat files
- Trees
- Network
- Relational
- Object oriented
- object Relational
- Data warehousing
- web enabled

## Disadvantages of File Systems

- All programs must maintain metadata about the files they use
- Different systems / programs ave separate copies of the same data.
- No centralized control of data
- Programmers must design their own file formats
- Increased maintenance requirements

## Database Approach

- Central repository
- Data managed by controlling agent
- Data format is standardized

DBMS: Data storage and retrieval system.

- Data is stored non-redundantly
- Data appears well-integrated

## Types of Data

- Application Metadata
	- About forms, reports, queries
	- Query 4 gives you XYZ report
- Metadata
	- Data about the structure of the DB
	- There are X tables, and table 1 has Y columns
- Index and Overhead Data
	- Indexes help with searching
- User Data
	- Data tracked by users

## Metadata

Data about data

- List of all the tables
- Info about the columns
- Indexes and keys for each table
- Rules and such

## DBMS parts

- Developers talk to Design Tools
- Design tools talk to DB
	- make tables, design the db, ya know.
- Users talk to Runtime
- Runtime interacts with DB, does CRUD operations
- DBMS Engine
	- Actually runs all this stuff.
	- Executes the queries from design tools and runtime.

> This doesn't seem right.

## Homework 1

Due Thursday, January 23rd at
11:59 PM
