
[up](./index.md)

# 2020-02-11 - Normalization

- Homework 3 is due tonight at midnight
- Homework 4 is due next tuesday, the 18th, at midnight.
	- There may be no late submissions on HW4

## Normalization

- Conceptual
	- Entity - an ER Diagram
	- Entity Instance
	- Attribute
- Representational
	- Relation - a relation
	- Tuple
	- Attribute
- Physical
	- Table
	- Record
	- Field / Attribute

> Oh my goodness we're finna hit the normal forms

Normalization: reduce anomalies

Anomolies:

- Redundancy
	- information repeated in multiple places
- Update
	- Failure to change all instances of a specific value
- Delete
	- Delete data and lose other values as a side effect
- Insert
	- A requirement to add data about multiple themes

## Functional Dependencies

A functional attribute shows a connection between attributes within a relation.

If A determines the value of B, aka B depends on A, write this:

**A &rarr; B**

If we know the value of A, then we can determine the value of B *and only B*.

Example: EMPLOYEE(EmployeeID, firstname, lastname)

**EmployeeID &rarr; Firstname, Lastname**

In the above example, EmployeeID is a *determinant*.

Functional dependencies can require a set or determine a set.

**A &rarr; B, C**

or

**A, B &rarr; C**

Consider:

Name | DOB | Dept
---|---|---
Joe | 12/15/60 | Acct
Bill | 4/11/71 | Acct
Joe | 12/15/60 | Mgt
Tom | 8/23/73 | Ship
Al | 12/15/60 | Acct

In the above table, **Name &rarr; DOB**. However, Name does *not* determine Dept. DOB does not determine Name or dept, and dept does not determine name or dob.

However, it can be said that **Name, Dept &rarr; DOB**.

## Normalizing these shenanigans

### Identify all functional dependencies

This is step 1. Find all the ones you can.

### Determine Candidate Keys

All the Determinants that could be primary keys are called *candidate keys*.

We must pick among the candidates which key shall become the primary key.

Composite determinants, candidate keys, and primary keys are all allowed.

### Confirm or modify the proposed candidate key

Then it becomes your actual primary key

### Upgrade the Normalization level

> MyCourses has a 'normalization process reference' in week5

#### Second Normal Form

"A relation is in second normal form if it is in first normal form and all of its non-key attributes are dependent on the entire primary key"

- Non-key attribute
	- It's an attribute not being used as a key
- Dependent
	- On the right side of a functional dependency
- Partial dependency
	- A non-key attribute that it dependent on only a part of a primary key

### Foreign Keys

When the primary key of a relation appears in another relation, it is a foreign key. This forms relationships between relations.

In type, foreign keys are shown in *italics*. When hand-writing, use a dashed underline.

<span style='border-bottom: 1px dashed black'>
Here's my attempt at a dashed underline in markdown
</span>

### Referential Integrity

The values of foreign key attributes *must* reference a valid, existing primary key.
