
[Index](../../../index.md) > [Authentication](./index.md) > 2021-02-01: Module 1: Trust and Security Models

# Module 1: Trust and Security Models

> There is a huge amount of raw information in this module.

Scenario: You are entering your login credentials to a website on your phone.

You need to trust:

- Your phone
- your home network
- all intermediary ISPs
- The end server

But trust with what? There are different components of trust.

**Trust Anchor** - something for which trust is assumed, not derived.

## Classic trust models

- Monopoly Model
  - One trust anchor
  - Less trust required
  - single point of failure
- Oligarchy
  - Multiple, independent trust anchors.
  - More trust required
  - Less impact from failure
- Anarchy
  - Everyone is a trust anchor
  - Users must make their own trust decisions
  - GPG web of trust

## "Objects" of Trust

- Theoretical Objects
  - Cryptographic algorithms
- Designs and Architectures
  - security models
- Implementations
  - Software Implementations
  - System Implementations

## How to verify trustworthiness?

- Theoretical Models
  - Formal proofs, like mathematical
- Designs and Architectures
  - Verified through formal review
- Implementations
  - testing and auditing

## The "Trusted Computing Base" (TCB)

Not every component of a computer can be trusted. So, we can isolate and trust the security components.

> Note that trust does not make something secure

The TCB should be separated from the rest of the computer by a security perimeter. Access must be protected by a *reference monitor*. This is typically implemented as a security kernel in an OS.

> Apple uses a "secure enclave"

## What does a security kernel do?

- Handle user / application request for access to OS resources
- Be:
  - Small
  - Simple
  - Well Defined
  - Independently auditable

## Rings and Domains

A domain is a set of objects that a given *subject* has access to. Modern OS's use "protection rings" to show *domain boundaries*. (It's not just user and kernel space).

> My chatbot process (the subject) asks the reference monitor for its database file. The kernel does the actual reading from the disk, and returns the data - but only if the process has the correct permissions to access the files it asked for.

## The Orange Book

*Trusted Computer System Evaluation Criteria*

The book sets forth criteria for evaluating the security of an operating system. One such rule requires the presence of a reference monitor, which controls subjects access to resources.

Levels:

- D
    - For OSs that try for C, but fail
- C
    - c1: discretionary security protection
        - Windows NT, Linux
    - c2: controlled access protection
        - Login logging, audit trail maintenance
        - A well configed linux distro could meet this
- B
    - B1: Labeled Security protection
        -
        - SELinux
        - possibly AppArmor
    - B2: Structured Protection
        - Security model is formally documented
        - use both MAC and DAC
    - B3: Security Domains
        - This is where having a reference monitor becomes a requirement
- A
    - A1: "Verified Design"
        - Formal models and proofs
        - It will work, it will always work.
    - Beyond:
        - The A1 system is developed/built within an A1 system.

> During this section, Prof. opened a jar for his daughter. And the zoom chat did rejoice.

## Assurance

Assurance mechanisms guarantee the previous requirements are fulfilled, and that the trusted system is validated as secure/not secure.

Assurance can come from multiple mechanisms:

- Operational Assurance
- Life-cycle assurance
- Continuous Protection Assurance

> Prof. did not expand on those points.

> "Is it a zero or a one - that's security. How do we know it is what we think it is? That's assurance." - Prof.

## What's a "Separation Kernel"?

It has something to do with VMs.

## State Machines

- *state* is a way that a thing can be
    - typically in a circle
- A *transition condition* tells what can happen to a state
- states transition to other states

## Reference Monitors are NEAT

> Recall, the reference monitor is the guardian between an applicant (like a userland process) and some protected resource (like OS syscalls)

- N: Non-bypassable
- E: Evaluable
    - Evaluate the security of the reference model
    - Auditable, evaluate the security in practice
- A: Always-invoked
- T: Tamper-Proof

## Terms

> What do these mean? Hopefully we find out next class.

- Target of Evaluation
- Protection Profile
- Security Target
- Security Functional Requirements
- Security Assurance Requirement
- Evaluation Assurance Level

## Some quick review on due dates and assignments

- There are 5 lab assignments, they are group assignments
- end of module quiz grades are individual
- end of semester peer eval is individual
  - You get a 100% just for doing it
  - But it creates a multiplier for group grades, it has huge impact

**Module 1 quiz**, due Feb. 13th. 2 hours allocated.

- Mod 1 quiz due feb 13th
- Discussion post due feb 6th
  - Watch the video first
- replies to two peers due feb 13th

There is a *second* discussion post:

- also due feb 6th
- replies also due feb 13th

Lectures are on Monday, group work is on Wednesdays.

There's also a list of videos that should be watched by Saturday.

Source summary 1 due Feb 13th.

> TL;DR: Go scour every inch of MyCourses for due dates, because they're everywhere.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Authentication](./index.md) > 2021-02-01: Module 1: Trust and Security Models
