---
date: 2021-02-17
title: "Q&A w/ Prof."
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

## Administrative

TA recommends doing lab2 on a local machine. It relies on `responder`, which causes network noise - doing the lab on RLES results in cross-team communication.

Prof. "beat us up" on the first source summary grade, to give lots of feedback. SS1 accounts for ~0.5% of the final grade, so those of us with poor grades should not stress.

Prof. wants edit rights on the google sheet to make grading easier. All PDF links should point into a shared folder.

For submissions, PDF only the current week's rows.

Future source summaries will receive less feedback in the future, but will be more pass/fail in grading. "Just do it."

The final paper methods section should include journals and search terms used to locate source summaries.

Prof. recommends using existing literature reviews as early source summaries, as they will show us what "good" looks like.

"Target Population for the Study" - This is not the target audience, but what the study was on.

Research Hypothesis is the core question. Research design is how they're designing the research in such a way to answer the question.

> Groups split into breakout rooms to discuss Lab2

For source summary set 3 (sss3), we will be doing peer-reviews of earlier source summary sets.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
