---
date: 2021-02-15
title: "Discretionary Access Control"
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

> There are a number of things due this week. There are a number of things due next week. Prof. will not tell you exactly what, or when, or where exactly to check. Good luck!

Data owners have discretion to assign/allow/restrict access to data.

MULTICS = Multiplexed Information and Computing Service. The access control system of MULTICS inspired modern access control schemes, and pioneered the idea of rings. RuBAC = Rules based access control.

Subjects request action on an object:

- Read
- Write
- Open a socket
- etc

The owner of the file may set the access control matrix: Lookup(Subject, Object), returns the allowed actions.

## ACLs vs Capability lists

An ACL is just a list. If every object needs an ACL, and every ACL is a list, well that's pretty heavy.

An ACL is defined on the file - who has what access level.

A Capability List is defined on the subject - what things do they have access to.

## Confused Deputy

## Windows Access Control

Access Tokens: contain information about the user

Sceurity Descriptors: list of who can do what with the thing, how to audit attempts w/ the object. Applied to securable objects.

A successful logon creates a new access token, which is copied into every process started by that user. On the NTFS filesystem, files have a security header where the security descriptor lives.

If the Discretionary Access Control list (DACL) isn't specified, then it fails open - everyone can access.

There are three types of access control entries (ACEs):

- Access Allowed
- Access Denied
- System Audit
	- What does this do?

An explicit deny ACE overrides an explicit allow ACE. Ace's contain a few things, including the SID it applies to. SIDs are made of a few fields.

# Administrative

Discussion post 1 due Saturday

Next Source Summary due Saturday

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
