---
date: 2021-04-14
title: "Quantum Continued"
mathjax: true
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Auth](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

Entanglement - If two qubits are entangled, then a state change in one causes a state change in the other. This happens faster than the speed of light.

Decoherence - Information integrity degrades over time.

Quantum Gates - These "gates" are how you apply a transformation to a qubit. The "Toffoli Gate" is important, and so is the "Hadamard Gate".

The Hadamard gate points the qubit vector at the equator - it now has a 50/50 chance of resolving up/down.

Hadamard Gate Matrix:

$\begin{bmatrix}1 & 1\\1 & -1\end{bmatrix}$

There are other gates too.

In essence, gates rotate the qubit vector by some amount around some axis.

The **Toffoli Gate** takes two input qubits and uses them to decide if a NOT gate should be applied to a third qubit.

## Shor's Factoring Algorithm

The majority of modern public-key cryptography depends on either the discrete-logarithm problem or the factorization of large primes.

Shor's factoring algorithm defeats both of these.

It uses a **Quantum Fourier Transform**, which is very complicated and very scary.

# Quantum Key Distribution (QKD)


Bob puts some information in a qubit, along a "basis". If you measure that along the same basis, you get a 1 - if you measure on the wrong basis, you have a 50/50 chance of getting 1 or zero.

Alice measures the qubit on a random basis, and then tells bob which basis she measured with.

Then it gets pretty wild, and I got lost.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Auth](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
