---
date: 2021-09-21
title: Acceptance Testing and Version Control
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{page.date}}: {{page.title}}

Administrative stuff:

There is an exam next Tuesday. Has some definitions.
2-sided, hand-written crib sheet is permitted.
Must be handed in after the exam.

There's a review session at some point, expect an email.

## Acceptance Testing

A user story is a project requirement. The product owner may be involved in writing these.

A user story must pass acceptance tests to be called done. One story will have many tests.

*Backlog Refinement* - when moving a story from the product to sprint backlog, its acceptance criteria must be defined.

Acceptance Criteria are formatted:

> **Given** criteria, **When** event, **Then** other event.

The *Acceptance Test Plan* is the set of all these tests for a story.

For sprints 1 through 3, we will need to create acceptance test plans.

## Version Control

A "software release" is a snapshot of code at a certain time. The snapshot captures some set of user stories, and you may need to make multiple snapshots as the code evolves.

Version Control manages changes made to code, and also tags releases.

- Each dev has a workspace ("Local Repository")
- There is also a shared workspace ("Remote Repository")
- Devs can make changes to their local repos
- Changes can be synced between repos
- "Branches" allow parallel development
- Branches can be merged together

### Git

I have files. I make changes to them.

Git lets me record my changes. It puts each change (also called a diff or a delta) in a bucket, in order, like a history. Now I can undo changes!

Git lets me push/pull my "stack of changes" (a repo) to other people's stacks of changes.

> If two people have a FILE, and one of them makes a change, they can share that change with the other person

Since people aren't always around, or aren't always online (like my laptop while driving to school), it's nice to have a server somewhere. The server isn't a developer, but can keep track of our change stack. Now anyone can share changes at any time, and anyone else can grab those changes.

If people are working on different things, they can create *branches*. Branches are independent stacks of changes. There is typically a main branch (formerly called the master branch). When a "feature branch" is done, it can be *merged* back *into* the main branch.

When merging, if the changes in two branches change the same line of a file, you'll have to pick which change you want to apply to that line. This is what it means to *resolve merge conflicts*.

### Git Flow

From the main branch, create *feature branches* for each user story.

When a feature branch is done, the developer should create a pull request to merge it back into main. A pull request is like a code review.

Once the changes are back into main, other feature branches should merge main into them, so that they are developing on top of the most recent version of the code.

### Avoiding Conflicts

- Keep lines short
- Keep commits small and focused
- If multiple devs are working on the same branch:
    - Pull *all the time*
    - Push *as often as possible*
- If a feature branch is taking a long time:
    - Merge in main, so that you're building on the most recent version

The class advocates for deleting branches. I don't think this is a good idea, but such is life.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
