---
date: 2021-11-04
title: Code Metrics and Usability
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{page.date}}: {{page.title}}

A metric is a measurement that informs a decision.

"Lines of code" is a bad metric.

Some metrics:

- Cyclomatic Complexity: The number of execution paths through a method
- Chidamber and Kemerer:
	- Coupling between classes
	- Lack of cohesion within methods
- Martin Package Metrics
	- Fan out coupling: Classes need resources outside the package
	- Fan in coupling: Classes outside the package need things from in it
	- Instability: A ratio between fan-out and fan-in
	- There were more :(

## Usability

Users want to accomplish tasks - something like "Buy groceries online". Tasks are broken into subtasks, like:

- I want to see what groceries are available
- I want to see their prices
- I want to add things to my cart
- I want to check out and pay
- I want the goods shipped to my house

Things to consider around usability:

- learnability
	- Steve jobs gave the iPhone to children
	- Oracle products do not pass this
- efficiency
	- Once learned, do users operate it efficiently?
	- Oracle products do not pass this
- errors
	- Can users recover from errors? How often will this happen?
- memorability
	- Can your understanding of how to operate the software endure time?
	- Oracle products do not pass this
- satisfaction
	- Is the design pleasant to use?

> I don't like Oracle products

To start designing for these things, consider:

- Simplicity
	- Less is more
- Consistency
	- The principle of least surprise
- Conventions
	- Years of UX researchers have already found best practices for you!
	- Brand logos go in the top left, and clicking it should go to the home page.
