---
date: 2021-10-07
title: Object Oriented Design 2 and UNIT TESTING
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Software Engineering](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{page.date}}: {{page.title}}

> Exams will be returned next class
>
> Sprint demos "went well"

These things are on slide 1:

- Controller
- Pure Fabrication
- Open/Close
- Polymorphism
- Liskov Substitution

> There is a thick assignment on this content. Not due today, but be prepared.

Solid:

- single responsibility
- open close
- liskov
- interface segregation
- dependency inversion

## Controller

Delegating responsibility out of the UI layer. Pull the code that drives change-making out of the UI layer, and put it in its own app-level controller file.

> In Node, we say that "routes" call "controllers" (request handlers), which translate out of http to call *services*.

## Pure Fabrication

"Assign a cohesive set of responsibilities to a non-domain entity in order to support high cohesion and low coupling"

Say a model tier entity that represents something needs to write to a database - That's not something that models should worry about.

Pure fabrication means just making something up.

## Open / Closed

"Software entities should be open for extension, but closed for modification"

This is a strong preference to extend functionality, rather than edit existing functionality.

## Polymorphism

This is good.

If there is a class `Fruit`, and assorted subclasses, then a `ChopFruit` function should be able to take any of them.

## Liskov substitution

"Objects in a program should be replaceable with instances of their subtypes without altering the correctness of the program"

> This sounds like polymorphism with extra steps

# Unit Testing

The art of testing tiny components of the code.

Features of unit testing:

- Automatic
    - The tests run all the time, no need to remember
- Thorough
    - Hit everything
- Repeatable
    - The same results every time on the same code
- Independent
    - Tests do not depend on each other
- Professional
    - Professional
- Fast
    - Fast

Maven runs tests on every build.

What are we testing?

- Business logic
    - The happy paths and the failure paths
- Constructors and accessors
- Defensive programming checks
    - Validation of method arguments
    - Validation of component state
- `equals` and `hashCode` methods

"Component under Test" = CuT. Isolate the CuT as much as possible. Do whatever setup necessary to get things into the state needed for testing.

- assertTrue
- assertFalse
- assertEquals
- assertNotEquals
- assertSame
- assertNotSame
- assertNull
- assertNotNull

Testable code relies on dependency injection such that only specific parts are tested at a time.

There is a framework called Mockito that helps create mock objects for testing.
