---
mathjax: true
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Tech. Innovation](./index.md) > 2021-02-04: What is Technology?

# What is Technology?

## Infrastructure

> Today is a Thursday - Tuesday's class was moved to today due to Prof traveling. Next class will be in-person during the normal time.

**Discussion Posts** - there is no word count, but Prof. does check to make sure all the questions are at least addressed. Discussion posts are worth 2 points each, and are not book questions - they are very open ended, there are no wrong answers.

> Since this week was shuffled a little bit, there is no discussion post. However, not everyone has answered last week's discussion; Prof. will leave it open for this week.

Prof.'s office hours are Wednesday mornings; Prof. is open to any questions.

There is a reading that should be completed by next Tuesday's class.

## What is Technology?

- Artifacts and Tools
- Techniques or Ways
- Social... things?

> This mirrors the business acronym "PPT" - People, Processes, and Technology (aka social, techniques, and tools)

We use technology to address needs and solve problems. Some technologies create their own need. They can be created in the face of a problem, or completely accidentally.

> "If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses." - Henry Ford

Technology increases productivity, and therefore creates more wealth. A carpenter with a nail gun can build more houses than one with just a hammer.

> If the productivity gain from the nail gun is worth more than the interest cost of a loan, then it is worth it for the carpenter to take out a loan to buy the nail gun.

$$
\delta \text{Productivity}=\delta \text{Capital} + \delta \text{Labor} + \delta \text{Tech}
$$

Countries with more earthquake-proof building innovation have less earthquake deaths.

New technologies can also introduce new risks. Nuclear power generates nuclear waste, and refrigerators can leak coolant into the atmosphere.

## What is technological change and innovation?

- Invention
	- Creating something new!
- Innovation
	- Developing an invention for commercial use
	- Implementing the invention for the real world
- Diffusion
	- The spread of technology throughout society

> After-class: video on disruptive innovation is on MyCourses

## What is public policy?

Technology and Policy both try to solve problems, and have impacts on each other.

> Class next week is in person!

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Tech. Innovation](./index.md) > 2021-02-04: What is Technology?
