---
date: 2021-03-16
title: "If you're reading this, I didn't change the title of my template."
course: Policy
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [{{ page.course }}](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

Renewable energy is a very broad topic - if you're using that for your final paper, try and focus on a single renewable energy source.

The first policy memo is due this Saturday (though extensions may be allowed).

## Quick Review

Policy instruments that promote / influence technological change:

- Intellectual Property Protection
    - patents
    - copyright
    - trademarks
    - trade secrets
- Government Subsidies
    - Funded R&D
    - tax credits
    - research prizes
- Government Regulations
    - compliance mandates
    - environmental regulations & performance standards
    - safety regulations

## Subsidies

- Federal R&D investments have been slowly growing
- The federal budget has *also* been growing

R&D as a percent of the federal budget has been relatively stable (if not slowly declining) since 1982. Non-defense has held just under 2%, while total R&D has dropped from 5% to 3%.

There was huge R&D funding in the mid 1960s, correlating with the space race.

## Direct Funding

Direct funding allows the gov. to target the funding very specifically.

Takes place via:

- Research Grants
- Contract work, awarded competitevely

Is it a *substitute* os *complement* to private R&D?

- complement
    - Increases the productivity of private R&D
    - Lowers barrier to entry for things the private industry is looking for
    - May act as a signal of quality to other potential investors
- substitute
    - Boosting private R&D may decrease the private investment
    - Funding R&D using public funds when private funds are available is a waste of taxpayer money
    - Do gov. only R&D to add competition to the marketplace

## Tax Credits

- Low administrative costs
    - The business are responsible for reporting their expenditures
    - Gov. is no longer making continuous decisions
- Research shows this is efficient
    - $1 in tax credits stimulates $1 in private investment

## Research Prizes

Research prizes guarantee a successful development - if there isn't one, there is no cost.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [{{ page.course }}](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
