---
date: 2021-03-30
title: "If you're reading this, I didn't change the title of my template."
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

Policy Memo grades are out, and a rubric is attached in the feedback section. Prof. will accept appeals to the grade for 1 week and no longer.

There is a takehome exam this week.

**Technology Transfer**: The movement of know-how or technology from one setting to another.

> I would call it a component of diffusion

- Governments fund Research
- Research goes through the Tech. Transfer office
- Research is developed beyond the "valley of death"
- Companies use the research

## The Valley of Death

1. Discovery: Universities
2. Basic Research: Universities
3. Applied Research: ????????
4. Product Development: Companies
5. Production: Companies

The Bayh-Dole act allows universities to file patents on research done with gov. funding. This incentivizes universities to get their research through the valley of death, to the point where companies will pick it up.

"Science Parks" are regional collections around universities to speed up their university-to-industry pipelines. RIT and UofR create startups in the Rochester area.

> Companies may even open satellite offices in Roc. to recruit from the universities here

## Impacts of Regulation

Some regulations target specific products / technologies, and may requires the use of a specific technology.

Regulations can create a *compliance burden*, which may inspire *Compliance Innovation* or *Circumvention Innovation*.

In special cases, the FDA can designate a drug as accelerated. This allows for more frequent meetings between the FDA and the developers. This does not change the requirements for safety.

### Drug Price Regulation

What happens if there is a price ceiling on new drugs?

- De-incentivize R&D for new drugs

*Golec and Vernon (2010)* compared the US and EU (the EU has much tighter price controls) and found that the US brought more new drugs to market and provided more jobs.

### Coal Sulfur Scrubber

Coal companies must remove 90% of sulfur. Despite cost reductions in scrubbers, companies are still only removing 90% of sulfur.

So, the clean air act shifted to a cap-and-trade license model. Companies were now incentivized to remove as much sulfur as they economically could.

> Caap and traaaade carbon taaaaax! Do it now!

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
