
[Index](../../../index.md) > [Tech. Innovation](./index.md) > 2021-01-26: Syllabus Day

# Syllabus Day

> The Professor has multiple years of experience in international environmental policy.

This class will focus on the interplay between technological innovation and public policies.

- How can policies influence the developments in the technology fields?
- How do new technologies influence policy?
- What policy tools do we have, and how do they work?

The government has a *responsibility* to address important emerging technologies.

## Class Modality

Blended Learning - This class meets only once weekly. Half of the learning takes place in-person during this meeting, and the other half takes place asynchronously online. There will be one to two discussion questions online each week.

> Prof. will be in Detroit, Michigan next week, and will need to be in quarantine next Tuesday. As a result, next week's class will be online-only. There *may* be a Thursday zoom meeting next week. If so, it will be optional.

## Grading

Class Attendance and participation count for 35% of the final grade. (Participation also includes online discussions)

There will be a take-home exam (roughly 24 hours) on April 1st or 2nd. It will count for 25% of the final grade.

The term project is 40% of the final grade, but is broken into parts:

Component | Description | Value
---|---|---
Background Memo | Research into a policy - feedback should be incorporated into the final paper | 10%
Final paper | Revision / Expansion on the first paper | 20%
Presentation | A presentation of your term project to the class | 10%

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Tech. Innovation](./index.md) > 2021-01-26: Syllabus Day
