[up](./index.md)

# 2020-04-11: Database Week 11 Notes

<!-- These are my notes. -->

*Converting an ER-Diagram to Relations*

Foreign keys are italicized, unless handwritten - that's the only case for dashed underline.

Entities become relations.

Relationships become pk/fk links between relations.

- 1:1 - avoid null values if needed
- 1:N - the many need links to the one
- M:N - Ah, the linking relation.
	- an FK to each entity.
	- FKs form a composite PK.
- sub/super
	- Each subtype gets a fk link to the super
	- said fk is that subtype's pk.

*reference statements*

RELATION_X(fk) mei RELATION(pk)

*participation constraints*

- total participation
	- If the entity exists, is must be a part of this.
- Partial participation
	- Can exist without participating

*ID-Dependent weak entity*

Said entity needs help forming a unique identifier.

for example, employee 1 dependent 2.

There are other dependent numbers 2s - but this one belongs to employee 1.

*Identifying and Non-identifying Relationships*

> Now this is where it gets extra smelly

"A solid relationship line denotes that the foreign key will need to help form a primary key"

> That's bullshit because so far *all* lines have been solid.

- identifying
	- solid line
- non-identifying
	- dashed line
	- fk not needed to help form pk

> So what's the difference between identifying and id-dependent?

*M:N Relationships can have attributes*

> Now that's spicy.

The associative entity implements the M:N relationship and stores the attributes about the relationship.
