[up](./index.md)

# 2020-03-24

This is actually the 15th, but I'm watching the videos from yesterday.

Homework 5 is due on March 31st.

Prof says there's 8 videos this week. That's 4 per class period.

## Video 1

A well-formed ER diagram captures entities and relationships between them, and does not require much normalization (if any).

- Chen notation
	- The big graphs and diagrams
	- lots of detail
	- farther away from implementation
- Crow's foot notation
	- It's a table with a header
	- no composite attributes
	- close to what will be implemented

When we normalize conman, there's actually like 4 entities in there. The original ER diagram was doing too many different things.

When there are multiple entities, the entities may have relationships between them.

An *entitiy class* is an abstract thing. There may also be *entity instances*. For example, Jim may be an Employee.

## Video 2

Relationship classes vs instances, degrees, has-a

A line between entities is an entity class. Every relationship must have a verb phrase. This describes the relationship.

For example, a department has an employee.

An employee is mentored by another employee. This is a *recursive* relationship.

An instance is an actual relationship between entity instances.

> The cross-over model: When reading a relationship class, if the description has a `/` character, read only the second description encountered in the direction of travel. For example:  
> Employee ---------- has many/assigned to ---------- Department  
> read as 'employee assigned to department'  
> OR 'department has many employees'  
> This is completely absurd, but we might be tested on it.

The *degree* of a relationship is how many entities participate in that relationship. A recursive employee-mentors-employee relationship has a degree of one. Employees in departments is a degree of 2.

A *binary* relationship is a relationship with a degree of two.

Degree | Name
---|---
1 | Recursive
2 | Binary

It looks like, in chen notation, relationships are diamonds.

In crows foot, it's just a line between multiple tables.

## Video 3
