[up](./index.md)

# 2020-01-21

## Review - DB dev lifecycle

- Create a model
- Translate to relations
- Normalize relations
- Create the DB structure
- Define relationships between DB tables

## Expanded DB dev lifecycle

- Create an ERM Model
- Transpose into Relations
- Normalize Relations
- Create the Schema within the DBMS
	- Create the DB
	- Create the Tables
- Populate the DB with Data

## ERM review

- Entity Class
	- Represented by a Rectangle
	- A table in a DB
- Entity Instance
	- a row in a table

Instances have *Identifiers*

[My favorite ERM resource (so far)](https://www.vertabelo.com/blog/chen-erd-notation/)

> Doing practice exercise 1 together

> I should really do the practice exercises :/

Attribute attributes:

- Composite / Simple
	- Made of many parts or one - has children or not
	- 'Name' can have firstName or lastName
- Single / Multivalued
	- How many values can it have? Two ovals if multivalued
	- Books
- Stored / Derived
	- Stored or calculated when needed - dashed outline if derived
- Identifier
	- Used to uniquely identify an entity instance

## Transposing ERMs to Relations

A relation starts with a capital name, and then in parenthesis there is a list of attributes. Only and all simple, single-valued, and stored attributes are included.

For example:

`EMPLOYEE(SSN, DOB, Name)`

> I could do the crazy underlining with MathJax, but that's a lot of work. Pretend 'SSN' is underlined.

When this becomes a table:

- Attributes become 'Fields' or 'Columns'
- Instances are 'Rows' or 'Tuples'

> Prof is using a lot of terms that require context. Anyone coming in here with no background knowledge is likely completely lost right now.

## Normalizing Relations

Welcome to **First Normal Form** (1NF)

- Rows contain instances of the relation
- Cells hold a single value
- Columns are attributes of the relation
- All entries in a column are of the same 'domain'
	- The Information belongs together, It's all about the same thing
- Each column has a unique name
- The order of the attributes is unimportant
- the order of the rows is unimportant
- No two tuples may be identical (There must be a primary key)
	- Natural primary key (an attribute)
	- Surrogate primary key (an attribute added just to guarantee uniqueness)

If a relation meets all of the above criteria, then it is in **First Normal Form**.

> Normal forms are def. on the test.

> HW #2 will be assigned next week, deals with detecting NF, not with correcting it
