[up](./index.md)

# 2020-02-13

- Feb 25th and 27th will be midterm written and practical
	- Can be normalization
	- Interpreting ER diagrams and / or relations

Class must pick one:

- An 8.5x11 cheat-sheet during the midterm
- Forgiveness on difficult questions

voting will take place next class.

## Practice

> I will bold the keys instead of underlining them

Normalize this relation:

A(**1,2,3**,4,5,6,7,8,9)

With these dependencies:

- 1,2,3 &rarr; 4,5,6,7,8,9
- 1 &rarr; 4
- 4 &rarr; 1
- 2 &rarr; 6,7,8,9
- 6,7 &rarr; 8,9

### My Solution

#### Identify problem dependencies

partial dependencies:

- 4 only depends on 1
- 6,7,8,9 only depend on 2

#### Shuffle Shuffle

Alright so now we have:

- A(**1,2,3**,5)
- B(**1**,4)
- C(**2**,6,7,8,9)

### Solution

Prof has identified the same problem dependencies:

- 1 &rarr; 4
- 2 &rarr; 6,7,8,9

*When moving dependencies to a new relation, the keys of the new relation become foreign keys in the original relation.*

> italics is used for something but I'ma use it here for foreign keys. Looking back, that's hard to see. 2 is a foreign key below.

A(**1**, ***2***, **3**, 4, 5)

B(**2**, 6, 7, 8, 9)

*There must be a reference statement for referential integrity*

This is a reference statement:

```
A(2) mei B(2)
```

> 'mei' means 'must exist in'

A is still not in second normal form, because of the relationship between 1 and 4.

In the new relation, C, we use 1 as the PK because it's already a key in A.

> Note because italics are hard: 1 and 2 are foreign keys.

- A(***1***, ***2***, **3**, 5)
- B(**2**, 6, 7, 8, 9)
- C(**1**, 4)
- A(2) mei B(2)
- A(1) mei C(1)

> I'm going to try and do the relation with html

A(<span style='text-decoration:underline'><span style='border-bottom:1px dashed'>1,2</span>,3</span>,5)

> That actually turned out really well

Alright - turns out we aren't done. Because 2 determines 6,7, and 6,7 determined 8,9, there is a *transitive dependency* in relation B.

We fix this by making a new dependency.

Here are the results, in glorious HTML markup:

A(<span style='text-decoration:underline'><span style='border-bottom:1px dashed'>1,2</span>,3</span>,5)

B(<span style='border-bottom:1px dashed'><span style='text-decoration:underline'>2</span>,6,7</span>)

C(<span style='text-decoration:underline'>1</span>,4)

D(<span style='text-decoration:underline'>6,7</span>,8,9)

## Slides

Kinds of anomalies:

- Redundancy
	- Stuff stored too many times
- update
	- failure to update in all places
- delete
	- deleting too much
- insert
	- adding data about many themes

Second normal form requirements:

- First normal form
- All attributes are dependent on the entire primary key

## BCNF

"A relation is in BCNF if all *determinants* are a *candidate key*".

A good data model will require less normalization.

## Notes from another example

- First Normal Form
	- idk how to describe this
- Second Normal Form
	- No *partial* dependencies
- Third Normal Form
	- No *transitive* dependencies
- Boyce-Codd Normal Form
	- All dependents are candidate or primary keys

Relation names must be in all capitals. Points will be lost because of this.

- underline
	- primary key
- dashed underline
	- foreign key
