---
date: 2021-03-02
title: "Intellectual Property"
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Tech. Innovation](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

## Administration

Submit a project idea on MyCourses soon:

A few sentences: The technology/science topic, what policies are involved / pending?

## Recap

Science and Technology policy are largely made at the federal level - why?

They affect everyone.

## Intellectual Property

Creations of the mind:

- inventions
- art
- symbols
- names and images used in commerce

Industrial Property:

- trade secrets

Copyright:

- artistic works
- architectural design
- (But not boat hulls until DMCA was passed haha)

Intellectual Property rights are the rights over the content held by the creator. The creator can transfer or extend these rights to others.

## IP Protection

Protecting IP maintains the incentive to innovate. Without IP protections, people could copy things immediately - removing some incentive to create new ideas.

## Types of IP

- Patent
- Copyright
- trademark
- trade secret
- industry design
- geographical indication

## Patents

Patents provide firms with *temporary* monopolies for their inventions.

The tradeoff here is that the patent filer must disclose the patent information. Patents are public.

This:

- Accelerates the diffusion of patented technology
- Induces more technical inventions
    - "Inventing Around" a patent
    - (Is this not a problem?)
- Reduces duplicate R&D
    - "Publish or Perish"

### New Patent Requirements

- Novel
- Nonobvious
    - Must be a new contribution to knowledge
- Useful

### What can't be patented

- Laws of nature
    - Physics formulas in a textbook cannot be patented
- abstract ideas

### Key Components

Clearly identify the inventor and the assignees - who has rights to the patent?

### Filing

You don't need a tangible product ready - you can patent the idea or process.

Protection starts at the time of application. Applications take roughly 25 months (Holy Guacamole!) to be approved. Protection lasts for 20 years.

When a patent holder believes someone is infringing on their patent, they can take the defendant to court.

Patents are country-specific - US protections only exist in the US. However, you can apply in multiple countries at once.

Once the US application is in, you have 1 year to apply elsewhere and still be considered first (even if someone else applies there right after your US filing).

### WIPO

The world intellectual property office accepts applications. On the application, you can decide the member states you are looking for protection in.

## Copyright

Copyright protection is offered for "Original Works of Authorship" that is *fixed* in any tangible medium of expression.

- literary works
- films
- music
- general art
    - paintings
    - photographs
- architectural designs
- As of 1998, boat hulls

Protection may require mass distribution, which may in return require significant financial investment.

### Comparison to Patents

Patents protect an idea, while copyright protects a specific expression of the idea.

### Limits and Issues

- Protection lasts for Life + 70 years (Thanks Disney)
- Names, Places, and non-fiction are not copyrightable
- Reproduction is allowed to "fair use"
    - This gray area gets very spicy
- "For Sale Doctrine"
    - The price of a physical good includes resale value
    - You can buy a book, and sell it again

## Trademarks

A *Distinctive Sign that Identifies specific goods or services*.

Trademark law prevents competitors from competing using your symbols. Protection lasts for as long as you pay the registration fees.

## Trade Secrets

- Not disclosed
- Must be secret
    - Rights holders must undertake reasonable steps to keep it secret
- Must have commercial value

# Administrative

There is a discussion post for this week, due Friday.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Tech. Innovation](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
