---
date: 2021-04-06
title: "Take-home exam overview; "
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

The take home exam is open-book and open-note. With these resources, you must work on the exam alone.

The exam will be open for 48 hours, starting this Thursday morning at 8am, and closing at 8am on Saturday.

Questions with a star (*) have more than one correct answer. If there is no star, then there is only one correct answer.

The open ended questions are not short essay questions, but responses should still be thorough.

The exam will be emailed out as a microsoft word document. It should be submitted as a word doc or pdf to the MyCourses dropbox.

## Porter Hypothesis

Environmental regulations can induce innovation.

The Porter Hypothesis says that it also increases the competitiveness of firms by increasing the "resource efficiency" of production.

## Diffusion

Diffusion is the spread of new technology throughout society. This happens through *communication*.

There are a few definitions of diffusion - it could also be *adoption*.

Innovations do not sell themselves - there are barriers to diffusion. The inherent value of an innovation is not always readily apparent to investors.

## What affects diffusion?

- Relative Advantage
    - Things that are better give higher incentive to use
- Compatibility
    - Things that are compatible with existing systems
- Complexity
    - simpler things are easier to get going
- Trial-ability
    - Things you can test first are easier to get going
- Observability
    - Things you can see are easier to get going

An alternative model: Diffusion is the result of individual decision making, weighing the benefits of the new technology against the costs of change.

## The S-shaped diffusion curve

At the start, very few people adopt the technology. Over time, adoption accelerates, before slowly reaching 100% with the hold-outs.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
