---
date: 2021-02-09
title: "If you're reading this, I didn't change the title of my template."
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

The Topic Proposal is due by the end of the week.

The first paper, the policy background, will be due the end of next week.

## Patents vs Trade Secrets

While patenting provides a temporary monopoly, it does require disclosing the invention. This could bring licensing royalties.

A trade secret has its pros and cons:

- No requirement to disclose
- No possibility for royalties
- Harder to defend
- Less innovation

### BioTech

BioTech typically uses patents, because:

- Simple: The patent is the product
    - easy to prove uniqueness
    - easy to enforce infringements
- Strong motivations for protection:
    - Extremely high R&D costs
    - Very low reproduction/replication cost

### Computer Software

It wasn't until the 1980s that programs had serious patent protection. The key distinction is between mathematics, and the specific *implementation* of the algorithm.

Reminder of patent requirements:

- Novel
- Useful
- non-obvious

Amazon's 1-click ordering was patented in 1999, but has been critiqued as very obvious.

Apple's siri patent took 8 years to get approval, since it wasn't very specific - it described abstractly how the software might function.

## Patent Problems

Software patenting doesn't really encourage innovation. It's most often used strategically.

Companies say that lead time / first-mover advantage is more important to spurring innovation. Even with no patent protection, being the first in the market grants a temporary monopoly.

The iPhone's first competitor came out 18 months after launch - but at that point, the iPhone had sold 5 million units and had established brand loyalty.

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Course](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
