---
date: 2021-02-16
title: "Going over Week 3 Discussions"
---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Tech. Innovation](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

# {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}

There is no class next tuesday - the term project intro has been moved to next Thursday in an optional/recorded meeting.

There is a discussion post due this week.

## Review: Justifications for Intervention

Government typically justifies intervention with four reasons:

- To correct for *market failure*
  - Knowledge is a public good, and tends to be under-produced by the private market
- *Knowledge Spillovers*
  - New knowledge in one field can help others
- Private market invests less in *basic science*
  - Basic science is a building block for more applied technology
- To correct for a *systemic failure*
  - Innovation may slow if market and "non-market" organizations interact poorly

Remember that *Demand Pull* is one of innovation's driving forces. *Induced Innovation* is the theory of how factor prices impact an innovation's desirability.

> Example: electricity subsidies in Venezuela have lead to massive bitcoin mining operations, despite the regulatory risks

## Presentations

Each group is going over their submission from the Week 3 discussion.

- Group 1
  - Valued IoT the most, with 40% of funding
- Group 2
  - My audio died, I spent this time fixing it
  - I think they valued IoT the least
- Group 3
  - Wind > Nano > Genome > IoT
  - Says intervention is less needed for IoT, but regulation is needed
- Group 4
  - Wind > Genome > Nano > IoT
  - Nano is long term, IoT has already run its course
- Group 5
  - Wind > Nano > Genome / IoT tied
  - Contrasting group 3, IoT funding went towards developing good regulation

# Science and Technology (S&T) Policy

Concerned with the allocation of government resources for scientific research and technical development.

- Policy for Science: regulate the thing
- Science for Policy: The science says...
- Policy for Technology: regulate the thing
- Technology for Policy: New tech informs policy decisions

Government has historically supported research and development.

How do we measure government S&T policy?

# Tasks

- Review the rest of the slides
- Discussion question will be posted later today

---

[Index](../../../index.md) > [Tech. Innovation](./index.md) > {{ page.date }}: {{ page.title }}
